Direct and Copy Forms of Initialization
 In §2.2.1(p. 43) wesawthatC++hasseveraldifferentforms of initialization. Using
 strings, we can start to understand how these forms differ from one another.
 Whenweinitialize a variableusing =, we areasking the compilerto copyinitialize
 the object by copying the initializer on the right-hand side into the object being
 created. Otherwise, when we omit the =,weusedirect initialization.
 When wehave a single initializer, we can use either the direct or copy form of
 initialization. When we initialize a variable from more than one value, such as in
 the initialization of s4 above, we must use the direct form of initialization:
 string s5 = "hiya"; // copyinitialization
 string s6("hiya"); // directinitialization
 string s7(10, ’c’); // directinitialization;s7 is cccccccccc
Section 3.2 Library string Type
 85
 When we want to use several values, we can indirectly use the copy form of ini
tialization by explicitly creating a (temporary) object to copy:
 string s8 = string(10, ’c’); // copyinitialization;s8is cccccccccc
 The initializer of s8—string(10,’c’)—createsa stringof the givensizeand
 character value and then copies that value into s8. Itisasifwehadwritten
 string temp(10, ’c’); // tempiscccccccccc
 string s8 = temp;
 // copytempintos8
 Although the code used to initialize s8 is legal, it is less readable and offers no
 
 visible representation).
 ispunct(c) trueifcisapunctuation character (i.e., a character that is not a control
 character, a digit, a letter, or a printable whitespace).
 isspace(c) trueifciswhitespace (i.e., a space, tab, vertical tab, return, newline, or
 formfeed).
 isupper(c) trueifcisanuppercaseletter.
 isxdigit(c) trueifcisahexadecimal digit.
 tolower(c) Ifcisanuppercaseletter, returns its lowercase equivalent; otherwise
 returns c unchanged.
 toupper(c) Ifcisalowercaseletter, returns its uppercase equivalent; otherwise returns
 c unchanged.
Section 3.2 Library string Type
 93
 Using a Range forto Change the Characters in a string
 If we want to change the value of the characters in a string,wemustdefinethe
 loop variable as a reference type (§ 2.3.1, p. 50). Remember that a reference is just
 another name for a given object. When we use a reference as our control variable,
 that variable is bound to each element in the sequence in turn. Using the reference,

 