The negative associations surrounding the Carthaginians have proved to be extraordinarily pervasive–particularly
the idea that, through its aggression, Carthage had brought its own ghastly end upon itself. When the poet and
playwright Bertolt Brecht cast around for a historical metaphor to remind his fellow Germans about the dangers of
remilitarization in the 1950s, he instinctively turned to a series of events that had taken place over two thousand
years before: ‘Great Carthage drove three wars. After the first one it was still powerful. After the second one it was
still inhabitable. After the third one it was no longer possible to find her.’ 10
Many of the prejudices first found in Greek and Roman texts were enthusiastically adopted and adapted by the
educated elites of eighteenth- and nineteent h-century Europe and America, who had grown increasingly interested
in classical antiquity. The attitudes that they found in the Greek and Roman literature that they read quickly became
their own. Thus the idea that the British–the inhabitants of ‘La perfide Albion’–were in fact the Carthaginians of
contemporary Europe firmly took hold in Republican France.11 The sentiment soon spread across Europe and
beyond.12 Thomas Jefferson, president of the Uni ted States in 1801–9, wrote of Britain, ‘Her good faith! The faith of
a nation of merchants! The Punica fides of modern Carthage.’ 13 A nation of shopkeepers could not be trusted to
keep its word.14
Fo r the great powers of nineteenth-century Europe, the emulation of these ancient prejudices was linked to
something far more particular than mere admiration for the c lassical world. During the colonial land-grab of the
second half of the nineteenth century, the Roman Empire understandably provided an attractive blueprint for these
new imperial powers, and Carthage also had a role to play as an ancient paradigm for the barbarity and inferiority
of the indigenous populations that they now ruled over. Similarly, when the French had first started writing of
perfidious Albion, it had been as much a way of bolstering their own imperialist claims as it was about undermining
British pretensions to be the new Rome.15
For the French, in particular, who from the 1830s onward were pursuing long-term strategic goals in the Maghrib,
the stories of Carthaginian cruelty, decadence and dec eit that abounded in both ancient Greek and Roman
literature were eagerly seized upon and projected on to the Arabs who now lived in the region. In North Africa,
France would be the new Rome. The most famous product of these colonial assumptions would be Gustave
Flaubert’s novel Salammbô. Published in 1862 and set in ancient Carthage, Salammbô was a roller-coaster ride of
sexual sadism, extreme cruelty and repugnant luxury.16 In other words, it played to every western-European
stereotype that existed at that time about the decadent Orient. It also served as a sideswipe at the French
bourgeoisie, whose religious conservatism, materialism and political bankruptcy Flaubert so despised.17
The overarching influence of Roman authors on modern perceptions of Carthage was further reinforced by the
trenchant criticism that Salammbô received. This had noth ing to do with the savagery, sex and licentiousness that
appeared on almost every page, but concerned the obscurity of the subject. One critic indignantly wrote, ‘How do
you want me to be interested in this lost war, buried in the defiles and sands of Africa . . .? What is this to me, the
duel between Tunis and Carthage? Speak to me rather of the duel between Carthage and Rome! I am attentive to it,
I am involved in it. Between Rome and Carthage, in their fierce quarrel, all of future civilization is already in play.’18
The point was that any aspect of Carthaginian history that was not associated with Rome was of no real interest or
importance for an educated audience.
Carthage would also prov e itself to be as attractive a metaphor for the oppressed as it was for their oppressors. For
some, the fate of Carthage, as the victim of brutal cultural vandalism by a ruthless conqueror, appeared so
uncannily to resemble their own circumstances that a common heritage could be the only plausible explanation. 
Eighteenth-century Irish antiquarians, reacting against Anglocentric assertions that the Irish were descendants of
the Scythians, an ancient people from the Black Sea famed for their barbarity, counterclaimed that in fact their
forebears were the Carthaginians. Serious scholarly attempts were made to attribute megalithic passage tombs in
the Boyne valley to the Phoenicians, and to link the Irish language to Punic.19 These theories predictably attracted
the ridicule of many in England, including the following mocking verse from Byron:

 